While recording motifs in Improvising While Black, I noticed that there were recurring motifs, like Brooks falling, crossing their legs, extending their arms, rotating their body, moving their head, and using various tools to add on to the audience’s experience watching them perform such as wolves howling or the narrator saying “gorillas” “gay” “gay gorillas”. All of these motifs are a part of their storytelling, which is connected to recurring themes such as trust, survival, and cultural remembrance. These themes bring together each piece Mayfield creates and allow the audience to have a relay of choreographic memory.  
When analyzing the data, I create choreographic lineages from choreographers like Katherine Dunham or Jawole Willa Jo Zollar, each of whom allows for their specific motifs to be formed from a historical and cultural point of view. Examples of this are Katherine Dunham’s diasporic grounding, which helps the human body to reflect memory and emotion to bring together an ancestral memory. In addition, Jawole Willa Jo Zollar is allowing for improvisation to be a community space, like mixing types of tools (music, text, and dance) to bring a community-like memory and survival aspect to her performances. Through tracking the motifs of Brooks, I could tell that their improvisations align with the visionary practices from Dunham and Zollar of the embodiment of survival and refusal. However, while I was tracking motifs I did run into one problem, which was understanding if it was a motif and how to describe it. An example is if I saw Brooks extend her arm, I did not know how to title that movement.  
Overall, creating a digital archive will allow me to understand better things I might be confused about in the future and will serve as a grounding tool to remind me when I am confused. It will also allow me to track my growth and identify my strengths and weaknesses.

